--- 
layout: post
title: Long time no post
date: "2006-10-29"
comments: true
categories: 
- personal
- videos
---
Because of me visiting some friends in China (Hong Kong, Shanghai and Beijing to be a little more specific) from October 5th to 25th, this site hasn't seen any recent updates. Of course I do have a lot to tell about the trip, and there's a plethora of other stuff I want to blog about since about late September. But this won't happen today, since it's Sunday and I'm even more lazy than usual. I still use jet lag as an excuse, but in fact that's a blatant lie. 

Since waking up at noon all I did was eating, watching 4 episodes of Family Guy, a few South Park specials like "Park Wars":http://www.ifilm.com/ifilmdetail/1087487, "Fatrix":http://youtube.com/watch?v=d8k0xV3XpFU and other stuff, as well as writing some mails and chatting with friends. Oh, I also watched the newest "Happyslip":http://www.happyslip.com/ videos on "YouTube":http://www.youtube.com/profile?user=HappySlip and they are funny as always.

Later tonight I'll watch a few more episodes of season 4 of The Sopranos before playing a tournament or two on "True Swing Golf":http://ds.ign.com/articles/682/682539p1.html (I bought both the DVD box and the game on Friday).

Bottom line: being lazy and adding some random noise to the blogosphere was just what I needed today, so you'll have to wait a little longer for the other stuff to finally appear on this site.

Oh, and before I forget it, starting from December I'll only work 25h/week so I can finally pick up my studies again. Besides that I hope that spending less time at this forsaken place called office will significantly better my mood, otherwise I might as well get myself an Alcoholics Anonymous subscription sooner than later... ;)

Boomtime, The Aftermath 10, 3172 YOLD

