--- 
layout: post
title: Capitalism stole my virginity...
date: 2006-2-20
comments: true
categories: 
- games
- nintendo
- personal
---
...but it bought me a Game Cube.

Today at work I got so p*ssed that I decided to go out and spend some money on stuff I don't really need. In the end I bought a Nintendo Game Cube, "Mario Kart Double Dash!!":http://www.nintendo.com/gamemini?gameid=m-Game-0000-652, a memory card, and an additional controller in a shop close to my work, as well as a copy of "Metroid Prime":http://metroid.com/prime/ on eBay which I should get in a few days.

*FAQ*
_Q: You know that capitalism only works by making you so depressed that you just need to buy something in order to feel better?_
A: Yes, that's why I'm also pretty ashamed every time I fall for this, but sometimes you just can't help it...

_Q: Don't you think that sucks then?_
A: Sure I do, but you can't get drunk all the time.

_Q: Why a Game Cube and not a PS2/X-Box/whatever?_
A: I've collected game consoles starting from the old NES until Sega stopped producing their own consoles after my beloved Dreamcast. Personally I just think that Nintendo and Sega rock, while MS and Sony...ahm...just don't. I don't need the newest and greatest hardware, I just want a nice platform which offers the kind of games I like to play. Additionally I already own a Game Boy Advance for several years, which can be used in conjuction with the Game Cube.

_Q: You could have bought that Game Cube a lot earlier._
A: That's not a question.

_Q: But still..._
Well, after Sega announced that they won't release any new consoles, I got so depressed and ended my career as a video game collector (I never really liked PC games). Now that I spontanously changed my mind, the Game Cube was the only system I considered worth buying. No flame wars please, I quite regularly play PS2 and X-Box games when hanging out with friends, I just don't want to spend my own money on those particular systems.

_Q: Will you start blogging about Game Cube games now?_
A: There might be the occasional post on this topic, but this site definitely won't turn into a gaming blog.

_Q: What about the revolution?_
See blog subtitle.

_Q: Have you turned into a bitter cynic lately?_
You've noticed? If I only knew what could be the "reason":http://citizen428.net/archives/254-Why-working-in-Business-IT-sucks.html...

Boomtime, Chaos 52, 3172 YOLD
