--- 
layout: post
title: I'm a busy little boy
date: "2006-12-10"
comments: true
categories: 
- personal
---
As always December turns out to be the busiest month of the year: Last Monday I met up with "berq":http://berq.net/ and "colo":http://gnulords.org/~colo/misc/quotes.txt for beer, dinner and nerd talk, which I really enjoyed. On Thursday the ominous "[[:bbs:]]":http://blingblingsquad.net/ had its Christmas party, which as expected led to loads of consumed alcohol and a headache on the next day. Nonetheless I joined the Viennese "Pardus":http://www.pardus.at meeting on Friday after having dinner with Silvia and a friend of hers. Yesterday "Steve":http://www.cargal.org came to Vienna, so we and some other friends went to have dinner (best Sushi I ever enjoyed outside of Asia) and some drinks afterwards. Since this week's schedule didn't leave me enough time to attend my Taekwondo classes, I got up after ~6h of sleep this morning to attend the class at 10:00am. 

But that's not all, as next week will be equally busy: On Wednesday I'm going to see "Placebo":http://www.placeboworld.co.uk/ at the "Wiener Stadthalle":http://www.stadthalle.com/. Yes, that's quite different from the rather small punk and hardcore concerts I usually go to, but I somehow like them and want to see if they'll live up to their good reputation as a live band. On Thursday yours truly will attend the Christmas party of his former employer, while on Friday my current company will have one. Saturday I'll meet up with a friend of mine who's visiting from Beijing, while I plan on spending a relaxing day at the spa on Sunday.

As far as I can tell now the week before Christmas will also be full with dinners, parties and other appointments, and the week after that I'm in Berlin for the "23C3":https://events.ccc.de/congress/2006/Home. To cut a long story short: if you're interested in a meeting either join me for one of the activities listed above or you'll probably have to wait until 2007. Wow, I feel important now.

Prickle-Prickle, The Aftermath 52, 3172 YOLD
