---
layout: post
title: /me on tour
date: 2006-5-29
comments: true
categories:
- personal
---
Now that I'm working full-time, I have to cope with only 5 weeks of holiday per year, which isn't really much compared to the ~5 month you enjoy as an Austrian student. That's why I decided to make the most out of it, and as my boss has already approved all of it, I can present you my holiday schedule for 2006.

Mid-July: Me and some friends will go to the "Mondiali Antirazzisti":http://www.mondialiantirazzisti.org/ in Montecchio (Italy) again. What's better than camping, beer, cocktails, sun and playing soccer all day? Not much, except maybe for the free concerts and cool parties in the evenings. Maybe we'll also spend a day or two at the "Rototom Sunsplash":http://www.rototomsunsplash.com/, but that still remains to be seen.

September: I'll spend three weeks in China to visit some friends in Beijing and Shanghai, some of whom I haven't seen since my days at Tongji University. Additionally a good friend of mine will also be in China at that time, so we're going to meet up in Beijing and crash at my former flat mate's place for a while.

End of December: Once again I'll spend the time between Christmas and New Year's Eve in Berlin to visit the "Chaos Communication Congres":https://events.ccc.de/congress/2006/wiki/Suggestions#Slogan_.5BWorking_Title.5D. Given how great last year's congress was (thanks again to the people who went with me, you guys have been great fun!), I'm really looking forward to this!

@ "All":http://gnulords.org/~colo/serendipity/ "the":http://teemow.com/ "usual":http://red667.org/ "suspects":http://berq.net/: if you want to join me on one of those trips (or all of them for that matter), tell me at the next party or give me a call or send me a mail or a carrier pigeon.

Prickle-Prickle, Confusion 3, 3172 YOLD
