---
layout: post
title: citizen428 weekly telegram
date: 2006-2-26
comments: true
categories:
- food
- friends
- personal
---
*Saturday, February 18:*
"teemow":http://www.teemow.de and "Steffi":http://flickr.com/photos/peppertwin/ came from Cologne to Vienna. Spent the night at "B72":http://b72.at/, "Chelsea":http://www.chelsea.co.at/ and "Elektro Gönner":http://www.elektro-g.at/. Nice.

*Sunday, February 19:*
Had a decent brunch with my girlfriend at "Restaurant Leopold":http://www.restaurant-leopold.at/. Then had some coffee at the "Bluebox":http://www.bluebox.at/ with teemow, Steffi and Laki. The "Coheed and Cambrea" concert in the evening got postponed again, so I went to the "Einhorn" with my former flatmate Doris to have some beers...

*Tuesday, February 21:*
Attended the IT Suppliers Day of one of our customers. Went to Laki's place with my girlfriend in the evening to have some Caipiroskas with him, teemow and Steffi.

*Wednesday, February 22:*
Met my co-conspirators (details to follow) "berq":http://berq.net/blog/ and "colo":http://gnulords.org/~colo/serendipity/ (who now has a blog too) at the Käuzchen. Got drunk again, but it was definitely worth it... ;)

*Friday, February 24:*
Had some great lunch - Seafood Soup and Walleye In White Wine Sauce - at Alberto's with my boss and the "WCM":http://www.wcm.at guys. I'll do a nice article series for them starting in June. More info will follow.

*Saturday, February 25:*
Went to the office for a workshop (around 2,5 hours), which was actually pretty informative and nice. Started reading "The Cocka Hola Company":http://www.amazon.co.uk/exec/obidos/ASIN/3453400526/026-7600414-8433267 and love it.

*Sunday, February 26:*
Had brunch with Karin and Andi at the "Lux":http://lokaltipp.at/lokale/homepage_9_1034, which IMHO offers one of the best breakfast deals in town (all you can eat buffet with *great* antipasti and lots of other good stuff for Euro 8,40!). Highly recommended!

Boomtime, Chaos 57, 3172 YOLD
