--- 
layout: post
title: Sure, I can wait...
date: 2006-5-10
comments: true
categories: 
- mac
- rants
---
My Mac Mini is almost here! "Almost?", I hear you asking? Yep, almost, because this morning when the nice lady from the logistics company who is delivering my shiny new toy called, the dialog went something like this.

<i>
Me: Hello?
Ms. Logistics: Hi, it's Ms. Logistics from Foobar Logistics. I have a delivery from Apple for you!
Me (silently): Finally we can take over the world, Igor. 
Ms. Logistic: We want to deliver it today, when will you be home?
Me: Well, right after work, 6:30pm, 7:00pm to be on the safe side.

(That's where Ms. Logistics showed me how good she is in producing awkward silences.)

Me: Lemme guess, that's too late?
Ms. Logistics: Unfortunately, yes. How about tomorrow morning?
Me: Sure, morning's fine. I'll be home until about 8:45am.
Ms. Logistics: Uh..ahm..
Me: That's too early then?
Ms. Logistics: Yeah, I can't promise a delivery that early [sic!]...  How about 10:00 to 10:30am.
Me: Sure, who needs to go to work anyway? How about the weekend?
Ms. Logistics: I'm afraid we don't deliver on weekends...
Me: Arrrghhhhhhhhhh!
(Disclaimer: Wording changed for emphasis.)
</i>

Finally we agreed on a delivery on Friday afternoon, where at least my girlfriend will be home because she works for a company which - strangely enough - believes that Austrian laws regarding maxium work hours per week are to be taken seriously.

And the morale of the story? Try to work for a logistics company, where you'll have immense amounts of free time, because they apparently only deliver between 10:37am and 4:23pm on even numbered days... Seriously, I'm the last person to expect anyone to work 24/7, but those times Ms. Logistics offered me just don't work for anyone who has a regular day job. 

Conclusion: Get rid of the day job before ordering the MacBook! ;)

Setting Orange, Discord 57, 3172 YOLD

