--- 
layout: post
title: Information Overload 2010-10-24
date: "2010-10-24"
comments: true
categories: 
- economics
- freedom
- informationoverload
- politics
- programming
- technology
---
<ul>
<li>"How Hacker News ranking algorithm works":http://amix.dk/blog/post/19574<br>"Arc":http://arclanguage.org/ source code of the "Hacker News":http://news.ycombinator.com scoring algorithm, including an explanation and a translation to Python.</li>
<li>"When the brain drain is healthy for democracy":http://aidwatchers.com/2010/10/when-the-brain-drain-is-healthy-for-democracy/<br>A neglected aspect in the study of "brain drain":http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Brain_drain, is it actually good for democracy?</li>
<li>"The Horror of Canadian Obscenity Law":http://reason.com/blog/2010/10/18/the-horror-of-canadian-obsceni<br>A Canadian horror movie producer got prosecuted for "corrupting morals".</li>
<li>"Pilot tells TSA: 'No Naked Photos'":http://www.baltimoresun.com/wreg-pilot-protest,0,774981,full.story<br>Best summarized by this quote by the pilot in question:  "Better people than I have sacrificed more than their careers, their livelihood, for the cause of freedom," he says. "Americans need to wake up and stand up."</li>
<li>"Aircraft crashes after crocodile on board escapes and sparks panic":http://www.telegraph.co.uk/news/worldnews/africaandindianocean/democraticrepublicofcongo/8078612/Aircraft-crashes-after-crocodile-on-board-escapes-and-sparks-panic.html<br>On the other end of the spectrum of air travel security, a man in Congo smuggled a crocodile into a plane which crashed as a result of the ensuing panic.</li>
<li>"The Tax Haven That's Saving Google Billions":http://www.businessweek.com/magazine/content/10_44/b4201043146825.htm<br>By using a complicated structure involving Ireland, the Netherlands and Bermuda, Google keeps its corporate tax rate at only 2.4 percent.</li>
<li>"Every email and website to be stored":http://www.telegraph.co.uk/technology/news/8075563/Every-email-and-website-to-be-stored.html<br>Monitoring citizens' communication data is back on the political agenda in the UK.</li>
<li>"The End of x86?":http://www.fernstrategy.com/2010/10/21/the-end-of-x86/<br>Will the "ARM architecture":http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/ARM_architecture replace the "x86":http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/X86 architecture?</li>
<li>"How Aging Populations May Crimp the World's Finances":http://www.nytimes.com/2010/10/17/business/17stream.html?_r=2&src=tptw<br>For the first time in human history, people older than 65 will outnumber children younger than 5.</li>
<li>"IPv4 Space Shrinks To 5% - Final Addresses To Be Issued In Early 2011":http://techcrunch.com/2010/10/18/ipv4/<br>Not exactly news, but includes a nice video to show to your less tech-savvy friends.</li>
</ul>
