--- 
layout: post
title: Information Overload 2010-11-21
date: "2010-11-21"
comments: true
categories: 
- books
- china
- economics
- media
- science
- security
---
<ul>
<li>"An Awesome Book!":http://veryawesomeworld.com/awesomebook/inside.html<br/>Dallas Clayton wrote a book for his son and it also "changed his life":http://veryawesomeworld.com/about.html. </li>
<li>"NASA Scientist Discover Huge Bubbles of Energy in Galaxy":http://thetechjournal.com/science/nasa-scientist-discover-huge-bubbles-of-energy-in-galaxy.xhtml<br/>Two giant gamma ray bubbles erupt from the center of the Milky Way.</li>
<li>"Why Zappos Offers New Hires $2,000 to Quit":http://www.businessweek.com/smallbiz/content/sep2008/sb20080916_288698.htm<br/>"Zappos":http://www.zappos.com/ is known for their commitment to a good customer experience, and they start by trying to hire outstanding people, which can also be seen from the hiring practice described in this article.</li>
<li>"citizen map":http://citizenmap.scmp.com/<br/>Interesting project by the "South China Morning Post":http://www.scmp.com/portal/site/SCMP/, _"aggregating local citizen reports, Hong Kong community media and other relevant news and information_". Also made me realize how much I'd like to go back to Hong Kong one day...</li>
<li>"Cyber Experts Have Proof That China Has Hijacked U.S.-Based Internet Traffic":http://www.nationaldefensemagazine.org/blog/Lists/Posts/Post.aspx?ID=249<br/>Allegedly China routed 15% of the world's internet traffic through the People's Republic for 18 minutes last April. Ah, the wonders of "BGP":http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Border_Gateway_Protocol.</li>
<li>"China's 18-Minute Mystery":http://www.renesys.com/blog/2010/11/chinas-18-minute-mystery.shtml<br/>Someone actually took a proper look at what happened and gave a neutral and balanced account on the BGP issue from above. This is refreshingly different from the "ZOMG the Chinese are gonna eat us alive!" articles found elsewhere.</li>
<li>"Why should you care about currency wars?":http://www.bbc.co.uk/news/business-11722578<br/>In time for the "G20":http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/G-20_major_economies summit, the BBC has an article and a video on a topic that should interest us all.</li>
<li>"How to Say Nothing in 500 Words":http://www.apostate.com/how-say-nothing-500-words<br/>Very entertaining essay on writing, this should be mandatory reading for college freshmen.</li>
<li>"New Facebook Messaging Continues to Block Some Links":http://www.wired.com/epicenter/2010/11/facebook-link-blocking/<br/>Facebook censors the content of user messages. That's great advertisement for the new messaging system. Not. </li>
<li>"China's educated youth face a tough future":http://cmp.hku.hk/2010/11/03/8508/<br/>Translation of an article on China's so-called "educated youth".</li>
</ul>
