--- 
layout: post
title: Information Overload 2010-10-02
date: 2010-10-3
comments: true
categories: 
- activism
- economics
- education
- hacktivism
- informationoverload
- programming
---
On a weekend trip again, but managed to squeeze in quite a bit of reading during the week.

<ul>
<li>"Friends Without Benefits":http://www.newsweek.com/2010/09/24/the-sad-truth-about-the-facebook-movie.html<br/>Was there a paradigm shift in Silicon Valley from hard science to pointless web 2.0 startups?</li>
<li>"How Universities Work":http://jseliger.com/2010/09/26/how-universities-work-or-what-i-wish-i%E2%80%99d-known-freshman-year-a-guide-to-american-university-life-for-the-uninitiated/<br/>As the title implies this is about universities in the US, but a lot of it also holds true for academic institutions in Europe.</li>
<li>"First World War officially ends":http://www.telegraph.co.uk/news/worldnews/europe/germany/8029948/First-World-War-officially-ends.html<br/>92 years after the end of the war, Germany will pay the last chunk of reparations imposed by the Treaty of Versailles.</li>
<li>"The Shell Hater's Handbook":http://shellhaters.heroku.com/#1<br/>Despite the name, this presentation by GitHubber "Ryan Tomyako":http://tomayko.com/ is a nice intro to shell scripting. If you know a shell hater, send him a link to this presentation.</li>
<li>"Virtual vs. Real Protests":http://www.nytimes.com/roomfordebate/2010/09/29/can-twitter-lead-people-to-the-streets/virtual-vs-real-protests<br/>Twitter "revolutions" and the confusion between "mobilization" and "organization".</li>
<li>"Small Change":http://www.newyorker.com/reporting/2010/10/04/101004fa_fact_gladwell<br/>Very much in the same vain as the previous article, Malcolm Gladwell talks about hierarchies vs. networks, strong vs. weak ties and why joining a Facebook group is not the same sort of activism as putting your life at risk in a real world conflict.</li>
<li>"Pay The Bills":http://bendauphinee.com/paythebills<br/>Interesting experiment in earning some money while looking for a job.</li>
<li>"Software Development for Developing Regions: Another Hat for Hackers":http://tier.cs.berkeley.edu/drupal/node/148<br/>Interesting idea about using skills like reversee engineering, code injection etc. for making software better suited to third world demands.</li>
<li>"India's surprising economic miracle":http://www.economist.com/node/17147648<br/>Will India's economy thrive when the global economy becomes more knowledge-intensive?</li>
</ul>
