--- 
layout: post
title: Blog moved from Serendipity to Wordpress
date: 2010-8-13
comments: true
categories: 
- blogs
- personal
---
Ever since I started this blog in January 2005 it was powered by <a href="http://s9y.org/">Serendipity</a> (aka S9Y). Lately however I became more and more dissatisfied with it for various reasons, so I finally took the plunge and moved it over to Wordpress. The whole process was surprisingly painless, but did have some caveats, so I decided to post a short description of what I did:

There is a script for migrating S9Y to Wordpress that has been floating around for a while and has been patched/modified by various people. Luckily I found version <a href="http://snowulf.com/2010/06/11/serendipity-to-wordpress-post-import/">1.4</a>, which got updated very recently (June 2010). For some reason it didn't work for me when I tried to migrate between S9Y 1.5.3 and Wordpress 3.0.1 directly, so I installed Wordpress 2.9.2 first, migrated the content and then upgraded to the most recent version. The import itself was very smooth and successful, categories (which I stopped using a long time ago), users, posts and comments all made it to the new blog! Once you are done importing, you can run several SQL statements provided in <a href="http://code.google.com/p/snowulf/source/browse/trunk/wordpress/s9y-to-wp/readme.txt">readme.txt</a>, so that your new posts will have the same IDs as the old ones, which is necessary for redirecting. For that purpose I added some <a href="http://httpd.apache.org/docs/2.2/mod/mod_rewrite.html">Apache mod_rewrite </a> rules, so that old post URLs will redirect to the new locations (and so will the RSS and Atom feed so subscriptions don't get interrupted):
{% codeblock %}
RewriteEngine on
RewriteRule ^/archives/([0-9]+)-.*$ /archives/$1 [R,L]
RewriteRule ^/feeds/index.rss2 /feed [R,L]
RewriteRule ^/feeds/atom.xml /feed/atom [R,L]
{% endcodeblock %}
There's still quite a bit to do though: first I need to find a theme I like (I might even stick with the one I'm using now and just tweak it a bit), then lots of posts need fixes to their formatting because they were written in <a href="http://www.textism.com/tools/textile/">Textile</a> (I fixed the most recent 2 so far, it's rather quick and painless). There are also some widgets and static pages I want to move over from the old blog, so I guess this site will be a work in progress for a while. I am however very satisfied with Wordpress and glad I finally did this move I put off for so long.
