--- 
layout: post
title: Information Overload 2010-12-19
date: "2010-12-19"
comments: true
categories: 
- economics
- informationoverload
- politics
- programming
- science
---
<ul>
<li>"Wikileaks and the Long Haul":http://www.shirky.com/weblog/2010/12/wikileaks-and-the-long-haul/<br/>A very well thought out and balanced view on the whole Wikileaks situation. We need more of this!</li>
<li>"Ukraine to open Chernobyl area to tourists in 2011":http://news.yahoo.com/s/ap/20101214/ap_on_sc/eu_ukraine_chernobyl_tourism<br/>Wow, this will probably be a very interesting - and very sad - tour.</li>
<li>"Vote for agony":http://www.economist.com/node/17627068<br/>Governments implementing tighter financial policies have no increased likelihood of being voted out of office, at least if the cut the spending instead of increasing taxes.</li>
<li>"Astronomers Find First Evidence Of Other Universes":http://www.technologyreview.com/blog/arxiv/26132/<br/>Interesting new cosmological discoveries could be prove of other universes.</li>
<li>"Stem cell transplant has cured HIV infection in 'Berlin patient', say doctors":http://www.aidsmap.com/page/1577949/<br/>A patient in Berlin might actually have been cured of HIV through a stem-cell transplant. Let's hope this leads to further developments in this area.</li>
<li>"Abandoned on Everest":http://godheadv.blogspot.com/2010/04/abandoned-on-everest.html<br/>An often neglected part of summiting Mt. Everest are all the people who sadly didn't make it. When we trekked to "South Base Camp":http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Everest_Base_Camp, we saw some makeshift "stupas":http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Stupa and other things people had built for their friends who hadn't come back.</li>
<li>"Neues Portal von Ex-Wikileaks-Mitarbeitern - So funktioniert Openleaks":http://www.sueddeutsche.de/digital/neues-portal-von-ex-wikileaks-mitarbeitern-so-funktioniert-openleaks-1.1035441<br/>Some former Wikileaks members started their own project because they were unhappy with how Julian Assange ran the organization. Also includes a nice timeline about Wikileak's history. (in German)</li>
<li>"the dude's good":http://cahiers-elizabeth.blogspot.com/2010/12/dudes-good.html<br/>Jeff Bridges, best smoker in cinema history?</li>
<li>"BBC Dimensions":http://www.howbigreally.com/<br/>Awesome project that let's you take important events, places or things and use them as a map overlay. Did you ever want to compare the size of the "Three Gorges Dam":http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Three_Gorges_Dam to the city you live in? Now you can!</li>
<li>"Erlang at Facebook":http://docs.google.com/viewer?a=v&q=cache:o0g6ONeGemcJ:www.erlang-factory.com/upload/presentations/31/EugeneLetuchy-ErlangatFacebook.pdf+architecture+of+facebook&hl=en&gl=sg&pid=bl&srcid=ADGEESiw63ZXSvf3kF4c-tTuKgPrHYucnpVY2FNqzV3vwY12fTxebQwEQMhf9PLmeEVVWioJiFDnY2aiaAnQaqL4E65nkHUleUIuZj2Ythq34IDRx5gVhajUSKjOUmLUVxkV_3GFC7M2&sig=AHIEtbThewthIAMefblxc9U9NWkD6yYY6g&pli=1<br/>Very interesting presentation by Eugene Letuchy. Also a good reminder that I want to learn more Erlang.</li>
</ul>
