--- 
layout: post
title: Viennale 2010
date: 2010-11-5
comments: true
categories: 
- movies
- review
---
Another "Viennale":http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Vienna_International_Film_Festival has finished, time for a little recap of the five movies we saw this year:

<ul>
	<li>"Los labios":http://www.imdb.com/title/tt1637694/ (Ivan Fund & Santiago Loza)<br/>
This had potential, but didn't really live up to it. Usually I'm all for mixing professional and amateur actors, but in this case it didn't work for me. A documentary on this topic would probably haven been more interesting.</li>
	<li>"Vincere":http://www.imdb.com/title/tt1156173/ (Marco Bellocchio)<br/>
Probably my favorite movie of this year's festival. An interesting - and true - story, great acting and beautiful presentation, what more can you ask for?
</li>
	<li>"Un homme qui crie":http://www.imdb.com/title/tt1639901/ (Mahamat-Saleh Haroun)<br />
A solid movie about present-day Chad. Told in a very dry manner, I really enjoyed the first half of this, but found it a bit of a drag towards the end. The lead actor was great though!</li>
	<li>"The Oath":http://www.imdb.com/title/tt1522857/ (Laura Poitras)<br />
A documentary about two men from Yemen who worked for Osama Bin Laden. I found this very interesting and as always it's good to hear the other side of a story.</li>
	<li>"Engkwentro":http://www.imdb.com/title/tt1424053/ (Pepe Diokno)<br/>
The life of two brothers in a ghetto somewhere in the Philippine - violence, drugs and gangs. This seems to have been made with a fairly low budget, and the nervous handheld camera may upset some people. Overall it was pretty interesting though and I'm glad we saw this.
</li>
</ul>


