--- 
layout: post
title: Information Overload 2011-07-31
date: 2011-7-31
comments: true
categories: 
- informationoverload
- politics
- science
- society
- technology
---
<ul>
<li>"Mac OS X 10.7 Lion: the Ars Technica review":http://arstechnica.com/apple/reviews/2011/07/mac-os-x-10-7.ars/1<br>Every time a new version of OS X comes out, I'm really looking forward to the in-depth Ars Technica review, because they are always super detailed (the current one weighs in at 19 pages), critical and highly informative.</li>
<li>"Pinke Inderinnen":http://www.viceland.com/germany/v4n2/htdocs/flux_pink_indians.php<br>Dalit ("untouchable") untouchable women in a poor region of India of Indian formed a gang to fight for their rights (in German).</li>
<li>"Timeline of incidents":http://geekfeminism.wikia.com/wiki/Timeline_of_incidents<br>The "Geek Feminism":http://geekfeminism.wikia.com/wiki/Geek_Feminism_Wiki wiki has a timeline of sexist incidents in geek communities. It's sad we still need something like this in 2011.</li>
<li><a href="http://singularityhub.com/2011/07/24/researcher-makes-a-career-developing-cocaine-vaccine-but-pharmaceutical-companies-won’t-produce-it">Researcher Makes a Career Developing Cocaine Vaccine, But Pharmaceutical Companies Won't Produce It</a><br>Let's rather fight a "war on drugs", hm? Somehow I do find the thought of an anti-addiction vaccine pretty scary though.</li>
<li>"Minority Rules: Scientists Discover Tipping Point for the Spread of Ideas":http://www.sciencedaily.com/releases/2011/07/110725190044.htm<br>Apparently if 10 percent of a population hold an unshakable belief, it will be adopted by the majority. I think that would explain a lot...</li>
<li>"The World's Deadliest Distinction":http://www.slate.com/id/2299256/<br>The world's oldest people regularly seem to die when they reach 114.</li>
<li>"The Campaign to Terrify You About EMP":http://www.theatlantic.com/international/archive/2011/07/the-campaign-to-terrify-you-about-emp/241971/<br>I'm constantly surprised by what politicians will bring up. The comment thread is kinda interesting though, people talk about solar flares and electro-magnetic storms which would have the same effect as an EMP.</li>
<li>"Is This The Beginning Of A Global Revolution?":http://www.businessinsider.com/year-of-overthrow-2011-6?op=1<br>A summary of the big political changes we saw in recent month. It's a bit strange how this article conflates revolutions and civil uprisings with democratic elections, but it's still a good roundup.</li>
<li>"The Secret Ingredient In Your Orange Juice":http://www.foodrenegade.com/secret-ingredient-your-orange-juice/<br>While I always have a certain hope that food laws in the EU are stricter than in the US, some of this probably still applies to juices sold here.</li>
<li>"Neue Medien und alte Geister":https://petertauber.wordpress.com/2011/07/28/neue-medien-und-alte-geister/<br>It's sometimes reassuring to read blog posts by politicians like Peter Tauber (CDU) who do understand the internet and new media (in German).</li>
</ul>
