--- 
layout: post
title: Information Overload 2011-05-08
date: 2011-5-8
comments: true
categories: 
- informationoverload
- media
- politics
- programming
- science
---
<ul>
<li>"Computer says: um, er...":http://www.guardian.co.uk/technology/2011/apr/30/computers-v-humans-loebner-artificial-intelligence?CMP=twt_iph<br/>Very nice article by Brian Christian who participated as a human confederate in the 2009 "Turing Award":http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Turing_Award.</li>
<li>"How Goldman Sachs Created the Food Crisis":http://www.foreignpolicy.com/articles/2011/04/27/how_goldman_sachs_created_the_food_crisis<br/>I lack the data and insight to fully judge the truth of this article, but I'm fairly certain that a non-trivial percentage of the world-wide rise in food prices was due to speculation. Isn't it great how cynical humans can be?</li>
<li>"World's largest model airport the Knuffingen goes on show":http://www.news.com.au/travel/news/man-builds-worlds-largest-model-airport-the-knuffingen/story-e6frfq80-1226050348557<br/>After 7 years and millions of Euros the world's largest model airport goes on show. This is impressive, make sure to check out the video and photo series in the article!</li>
<li>"Images Reveal Scale Of North Korean Political Prison Camps":http://amnesty.org/en/news-and-updates/images-reveal-scale-north-korean-political-prison-camps-2011-05-03<br/>If Amnesty calls something "some of the worst circumstances we've documented in the last 50 years" it must be really, really bad.</li>
<li>"How to Identify and Avoid Spreading Misinformation, Myths, and Urban Legends on the Internet":http://lifehacker.com/?_escaped_fragment_=5798308/how-to-identify-and-avoid-spreading-misinformation-myths-and-urban-legends-on-the-internet<br/>I know I've posted links like this one before, but some things really do need to be repeated.</li>
<li>"Das Herz des Attentäters":http://www.freitag.de/wissen/1118-das-herz-des-attentaeters<br/>It's probably not as simple as this, but definitely something to think about (in German).</li>
<li>"Google Go boldly goes where no code has gone before":http://www.theregister.co.uk/2011/05/05/google_go/<br/>While I don't necessarily agree with the title, it's still a nice article on a language we here surprising little about.</li>
<li>"25 Abandoned Yugoslavia Monuments that look like they're from the Future":http://www.cracktwo.com/2011/04/25-abandoned-soviet-monuments-that-look.html<br/>I always was attracted to socialist architecture and the monuments in this article are no exception.</li>
<li>"Small areas of the brain go to sleep when we're up too late":http://arstechnica.com/science/news/2011/04/if-you-only-feel-half-awake-you-probably-are.ars<br/>Sleep is a strange beast I've been struggling with to varying degrees for almost as long as I can remember, which is one reason why I like reading about it.</li>
<li>"The Neuroscience of the Gut":http://www.scientificamerican.com/article.cfm?id=the-neuroscience-of-gut<br/>This is quite interesting, especially since this week I also found out about "fecal transplants":http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Fecal_bacteriotherapy.</li>
</ul>
