---
layout: post
title: Information Overload 2011-06-26
date: 2011-6-26
comments: true
categories:
- education
- informationoverload
- math
- politics
- science
---
<ul>
<li>"Fish don't know they're in water":http://sivers.org/fish<br>This is something I also learned while traveling, the further you go away from home, the more you realize that many things you take as granted are just part of your own culture.</li>
<li>"Don't Know Much About History":http://online.wsj.com/article/SB10001424052702304432304576369421525987128.html?mod=WSJ_hps_sections_opinion<br>While I hope that history lessons in Europe aren't as bad as they apparently are in the US, I remember from my own high-school days that the subject is often taught in awful ways.</li>
<li>"The story of the G&ouml;mb&ouml;c":http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/G%C3%B6mb%C3%B6c#Name<br>This is why math is cool: what starts as a weird theory, is later discovered to actually exist in nature.</li>
<li>"How do magnets work?":http://www.coolmagnetman.com/maghow.htm<br>A very nice explanation of magnetism.</li>
<li>"Why numbering should start at zero":http://www.cs.utexas.edu/users/EWD/ewd08xx/EWD831.PDF<br>A letter by Edsger W. Dykstra gives a reason for why array indexing should start with 0 ("an element's ordinal (subscript) equals the number of elements preceding it in the sequence").</li>
<li>"New Japanese Pop Idol Shocks Fans With News &mdash; She's Not Real":http://singularityhub.com/2011/06/22/new-japanese-pop-idol-shocks-fans-with-news%E2%80%93shes-not-real-video/<br>With the amount of crazy news coming out of Japan, it's surprising the country doesn't feature here more regularly.</li>
<li>"An Indian summary":http://www.economist.com/content/indian-summary<br>Great visualization of Indian states compared to countries. Maharashtra for example has the GDP of Singapore, but a per head roughly like Sri Lanka.</li>
<li>"How European Elites Lost a Generation":http://www.spiegel.de/international/europe/0,1518,769831,00.html<br>A good article to understand some of the motivations behind the protests of young people everywhere in Europe.</li>
<li>"Lucky Yingluck":http://www.economist.com/node/18866885<br>With the Thai elections around the corner, this article provides some insights into the current election campaign.</li>
<li>"Criminalizing free speech":http://www.salon.com/news/opinion/glenn_greenwald/2011/06/01/free_speech<br>On free speech and extra-legal killings.</li>
</ul>
