---
layout: post
title: Information Overload 2011-06-19
date: 2011-6-19
comments: true
categories:
- informationoverload
- math
- media
- science
- technology
---
<ul>
<li>"Take a look at the world's oldest mathematical object":http://io9.com/5806767/<br/>A short article about the Ishango bone, apparently the &quot;<a href="http://mathworld.wolfram.com/IshangoBone.html">oldest known object containing logical carvings</a>&quot;.</li>
<li>"Nemesis: Der Todesstern und die Dinosaurier":http://www.scienceblogs.de/astrodicticum-simplex/2011/06/nemesis-der-todesstern-und-die-dinosaurier.php<br/>Somehow I've missed the <a href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Nemesis_(hypothetical_star)">Nemesis theory</a> until now, but it sure is interesting (in German).</li>
<li>"Rich Hickey Q&A":http://www.codequarterly.com/2011/rich-hickey/<br/>Great interview with Rich Hickey in Code Quarterly. Whenever I hear/read something by Rich, I understand why Clojure is such an awesome language.</li>
<li>"Earth may be headed into a mini Ice Age within a decade":http://www.theregister.co.uk/2011/06/14/ice_age/<br/>Hm, finally a good excuse to move to warmer places for good? "Or not":http://www.newscientist.com/blogs/shortsharpscience/2011/06/new-ice-age-dont-count-on-it.html?</li>
<li>"DIY Weapons of the Libyan Rebels":http://www.theatlantic.com/infocus/2011/06/diy-weapons-of-the-libyan-rebels/100086/<br/>The creativity of humans when it comes to killing each other never ceases to amaze and sadden me.</li>
<li>"Indian Village Renamed Snapdeal.com. And It's Not A Cheap Marketing Stunt!":http://techcrunch.com/2011/06/17/indian-village-renamed-snapdeal-com-and-its-not-a-cheap-marketing-stunt/<br/>IMHO as long as people get helped, it doesn't even matter if it's a marketing stunt or not. More companies should do something for their local communities.</li>
<li>"LulzSec - 1000th tweet statement":http://pastebin.com/HZtH523f<br/>Since LulzSec was all over the news this week, I decided to include their open letter. There also was an "answer":http://pastebin.com/pbhBQLKy.</li>
<li>"Translation technology may let humans speak with dolphins":http://www.digitaltrends.com/computing/translation-technology-may-let-humans-speak-with-dolphins/<br/>That would be awesome.</li>
<li>"Top 10 media manipulation strategies":http://www.thecompulsiveliar.com/top-10-media-manipulation-strategies.html<br/>A list compiled by Noam Chomsky.</li>
<li>"High school grad builds 8-bit computer from scratch, complete with custom OS and Pong":http://www.digitaltrends.com/computing/wow-high-school-grad-builds-8-bit-computer-from-scratch-complete-with-custom-os-and-pong/<br/>Simply amazing, an 18 yo builds a computer from scratch and then implements a custom OS and some games.</li>
</ul>
