--- 
layout: post
title: Information Overload 2011-08-28
date: 2011-8-28
comments: true
categories: 
- informationoverload
- politics
- programming
- society
- technology
---
<ul>
<li>"Jailed in Singapore for writing a book they didn't like":http://www.guardian.co.uk/world/2011/jul/27/jail-singapore<br>A British write was jailed in Singapore for writing a book about the judiciary system that the authorities didn't like.</li>
<li>"Von wegen weg mit den Wiener Wagentruppen":http://www.cafebabel.de/article/38357/von-wegen-weg-mit-wiener-wagentruppen.html<br>Some people in Vienna try to live an alternative lifestyle, which is not always easy in this city (in German).</li>
<li>"Top Ten Myths about the Libya War":http://www.juancole.com/2011/08/top-ten-myths-about-the-libya-war.html<br>Very nice and informative article, I should follow this blog more closely.</li>
<li>"Cities in Fact and Fiction: An Interview with William Gibson":http://www.scientificamerican.com/article.cfm?id=gibson-interview-cities-in-fact-and-fiction<br>An interview with William Gibson about cities, where he mentions many of the reasons why I also like them.</li>
<li>"Remapping the World":http://www.time.com/time/specials/packages/article/0,28804,1971133_1971110_1971105,00.html<br>Part of Time magazine's series "10 Ideas for the Next 10 Years":http://www.time.com/time/specials/packages/completelist/0,29569,1971133,00.html this article suggests a world where we get rid of political borders.</li>
<li>"How dead is dead?":http://www.economist.com/node/21526321<br>A survey about dead people vs people in permanent vegetative states had surprising results.</li>
<li>"Fukushima Robot Operator Writes Tell-All Blog":http://spectrum.ieee.org/automaton/robotics/industrial-robots/fukushima-robot-operator-diaries<br>Fascinating article about a Japanese robot operator who helps with the Fukushima cleanup operation.</li>
<li>"Prescient but Not Perfect: A Look Back at a 1966 Scientific American Article on Systems Analysis":http://blogs.scientificamerican.com/at-scientific-american/2011/08/23/systems-analysis-look-back-1966-scientific-american-article/<br>Peter Norvig looks at a 45 year old programming article. And since the language used isn't around anymore, he writes a translator to Python along the way.</li>
<li>"The Tel Aviv Spring: Mass Demonstrations with a Cheesy Origin":http://www.guernicamag.com/blog/3000/mikhal_dekel_the_tel_aviv_spri/<br>The current wave of social unrest also spread to Israel, although in a very peaceful way.</li>
<li>"Asia's lonely hearts":http://www.economist.com/node/21526350?fsrc=scn/tw/te/ar/asiasloneyhearts<br>As less Asian women want to marry, societal changes are imminent.</li>
</ul>
