--- 
layout: post
title: Frozen Rails recap
date: 2011-9-24
comments: true
categories: 
- review
- ruby
---
I spent the first half of this week in Helsinki at the excellent "Frozen Rails":https://frozenrails.eu/ conference and thought I'd share some impressions with you:

*Monday:* when we (team "Tupalo":http://tupalo.com that is) finally got to the pre-opening event it was rather empty already, but we managed to collect the leftovers and get a party going that was very fun and helped in getting to know many people quickly. Later that night we picked up a jet lagged Ryan Smith ("Heroku":http://heroku.com) from his hotel and stayed out much longer than we should have... ;-)

*Tuesday:* Arriving at Finlandia hall still a bit hungover, I soon got very excited by what I saw around me. The conference is rather small, which in my opinion is one of its strongest points, since it's very easy to actually get to talk to a lot of the attendees. The overall atmosphere is very amicable, so you barely ever feel like you are intruding on someone when you strike up a random conversation. Talk-wise it started with Geoffrey Grosenbach's ("PeepCode":http://peepcode.com/) "keynote":https://frozenrails.eu/sessions#geoffrey, which was nice but not overly exciting. This was followed by a spontaneous talk by Jeff Kasimir ("Jumpstart Lab":http://jumpstartlab.com/) titled "The Problem Is In Your Ruby", which was absolutely fantastic. I also got a chance to talk to Jeff about potential cooperations with "RubyLearning":http://rubylearning.org later, let's see if that gets anywhere. I then took a couple of hours off for some socializing, before watching Jeff's second talk "Blow Up Your Views":https://frozenrails.eu/sessions#jeff. The last talk I saw that day was by the "Travis CI":http://travis-ci.org/ team and I enjoyed it so much that I immediately switched one of my own projects to Travis. After the conference we had dinner in the excellent "Soul Kitchen":http://www.soulkitchen.fi/, followed by some drinks at "A21":http://www.a21.fi/ and "Bar Loose":http://www.barloose.com/.

*Wednesday:* Despite a lack of sleep I dragged myself to Richard White's ("UserVoice":http://uservoice.com/) "keynote":https://frozenrails.eu/sessions#richard, who talked about startups and entrepreneurship. That was followed by the very interesting "How GitHub Uses GitHub to Build GitHub":https://frozenrails.eu/sessions#zach by Zach Holman ("GitHub":http://github.com, surprise). I then spent some time hacking a little on a bit of Ruby code for my lightning talk, but went to see Ryan Smith's talk on how stuff works at Heroku. After the coffee break I sat in "Joseph Ruscio's" ("Librato":https://silverline.librato.com/) talk "Implementing a RESTful API with Ruby the Right Way":https://frozenrails.eu/sessions#joseph_ruscio, but I must admit that I was a bit tired and didn't pay as much attention as the talk deserved. The last talk was my personal favorite, "Debugging Ruby Performance":https://frozenrails.eu/sessions#aman by GitHub's Aman Gupta (I have some notes as an Emacs org-file "on GitHub":https://github.com/citizen428/study-notes/blob/master/ruby-perfomance/ruby-perfomance.org). The conference ended with some lightning talks, including our own on hack weeks at Tupalo. For dinner Heroku invited some 25 or so people to the expensive "Hotel K&auml;mp":http://www.hotelkamp.fi/, where I spent most of the time talking to Topfunky and his friends. We then went over to "Le Bonk":http://www.lebonk.fi/ to join the GitHub drink up, but due to a non-disclosure agreement with myself no details about this evening will be made public ;-)

All in all a very nice and well organized conference, that for me has the perfect size. Congrats and thanks to the team for organizing such an awesome event! BTW: someone set up a "GitHub repository":https://github.com/i0rek/frozenrails-notes with Frozen Rails slides, photos and notes, check it out!
