--- 
layout: post
title: Information Overload 2011-02-06
date: 2011-2-6
comments: true
categories: 
- clojure
- informationoverload
- math
- politics
- science
- technology
---
<ul>
<li>"Plenty Of Fish Hacked":http://grumomedia.com/plenty-of-fish-hacked-chris-russos-explains-how-he-did-it/<br>Once again a security researcher gets into trouble for reporting a vulnerability. Will people never learn?</li>
<li>"Sourceforge Attack: Full Report":http://sourceforge.net/blog/sourceforge-attack-full-report/<br>Speaking of security, here's the full report of the recent Sourceforge hack.</li>
<li>"Broken sticks puzzle, and a seemingly paradoxical ratio":http://mindyourdecisions.com/blog/2011/02/01/broken-sticks-puzzle-and-a-seemingly-paradoxical-ratio/<br>A nice little math puzzle, solved with the help of Wolfram Alpha.</li>
<li>"Die wahre Online-Revolution: Ungeduld":http://leyrer.wikosophy.org/blog/2011/02/die-wahre-online-revolution-ungeduld/<br>I often had the same thought about "Twitter revolutions", but Georg actually bothered to sum it up and write it down (in German).</li>
<li>"On Omar Suleiman":http://www.arabist.net/blog/2011/2/4/on-omar-suleiman.html<br>If you wnat to find out more about the Egyptian Vice President, this is an interesting profile of the man.</li>
<li>"The Afghan Bank Heist":http://www.newyorker.com/reporting/2011/02/14/110214fa_fact_filkins?currentPage=all<br>A very sobering article about the Afghan government's involvement in large-scale corruption.</li>
<li>"A tour of the Clojure landscape":http://ericlavigne.wordpress.com/2011/01/30/a-tour-of-the-clojure-landscape/<br>I quite like this map of Clojure projects on GitHub.</li>
<li>"How To Identify Good Clients (and Avoid Bad Ones)":http://www.smashingmagazine.com/2011/01/14/how-to-identify-good-clients-avoid-bad-ones/<br>Good advice, not only for freelancers.</li>
<li>"Adsense, no sense at all - what it's like being sacked by a computer...":http://www.duckworksmagazine.com/11/columns/guest/winter/index.htm<br>This is a bit older, but still a good reminder on why it's dangerous to rely on something like Adwords for your income.</li>
<li>"Sit. Stay. Parse. Good Girl!":http://www.nytimes.com/2011/01/18/science/18dog.html?_r=2&pagewanted=all<br>A dog with a "vocabulary" of over 1000 words.</li>
</ul>
