---
layout: post
title: Information Overload 2011-01-16
date: 2011-1-16
comments: true
categories:
- economics
- informationoverload
- politics
- programming
- science
---
<ul>
<li>"Crap Detection 101":http://www.sfgate.com/cgi-bin/blogs/rheingold/detail?entry_id=42805<br>The next time you want to help improve someone's information literacy, point them to this article. It may even have some interesting links for more senior sceptics.</li>
<li>"Vanessa Hurst, Destroying the Female Programmer Stereotype":http://techfemme.wordpress.com/2011/01/05/vanessa-hurst/<br>There should be more articles like this to close the gender gap in IT. </li>
<li>"Shades of Grey (a Fragment)":http://kyrah.net/work/shades-of-grey.html<br>Another text asking or a more differentiated discussion of the whole Wikileaks situation. I couldn't agree more.</li>
<li>"Programming is not a craft":http://dannorth.net/2011/01/11/programming-is-not-a-craft/<br>Since I'm a big fan of balanced opinions, here's an interesting contribution to the software craftsmanship discussion, as well as an "answer":http://gilesbowkett.blogspot.com/2011/01/dan-north-blah-blah-blah-blah-horseshit.html to that article.</li>
<li>"Inequality in Equalland":http://www.daemonology.net/blog/2011-01-10-inequality-in-equalland.html<br>To stay with the topic of this issue here's more food for though, this time on economic inequality.</li>
<li>"Your Random Numbers - Getting Started with Processing and Data Visualization":http://blog.blprnt.com/blog/blprnt/your-random-numbers-getting-started-with-processing-and-data-visualization<br>With so much data out there, why not start visualizing it yourself. "Processing":http://processing.org/ is a neat tool for that and this tutorial gives a first taste.</li>
<li>"THE ZIMBABWEAN Trillion Dollar":http://tbwa.com/#lsi121ci5b0q<br>Awesome campaign by newspaper "The Zimbabwean":http://www.thezimbabwean.co.uk/ </li>
<li>"Man of Mistery":http://www.newyorker.com/arts/critics/atlarge/2011/01/10/110110crat_atlarge_acocella?currentPage=all<br>Interesting article on the success of Stieg Larsson's "Millennium Trilogy". Contains lots of spoilers, so don't read this if you still want to read the books.</li>
<li>"The Mathematics Of Beauty":http://blog.okcupid.com/index.php/the-mathematics-of-beauty/<br>Entertaining post on the OkCupid blog about male messaging behavior in regard to women's attractiveness.</li>
<li>"Why Physicians Don't Cry":http://medcrun.ch/2011/01/why-physicians-don%E2%80%99t-cry/<br>Former colleague and M.D. "Lukas":http://twitter.com/zinnaglism published this in his new online magazine "MedCrunch":http://medcrun.ch/.</li>
</ul>
