--- 
layout: post
title: Information Overload 2011-04-03
date: 2011-4-3
comments: true
categories: 
- informationoverload
- math
- politics
- science
- society
- technology
---
<ul>
<li>"No Sharing Allowed":http://www.slate.com/id/2289012/pagenum/all/<br/>Ebooks as yet another example of how "old media" companies have a hard time transitioning into the digital world. </li>
<li>"P2P Gift Credit Card":http://www.paolocirio.net/work/gift-finance/p2p_gift_credit_card.php<br/>Interesting idea by Italian artist "Paolo Cirio":http://www.paolocirio.net/cv.php.</li>
<li>"Biomimetic Designers Take Note: Goat Hooves Confer Ninja-like Climbing Abilities":http://www.core77.com/blog/education/biomimetic_designers_take_note_goat_hooves_confer_ninja-like_climbing_abilities_18851.asp<br/>Ever wondered why goats are such amazing climbers? Here's the answer.</li>
<li>"Inside Seized Drug-Smuggling Submarines":http://www.time.com/time/photogallery/0,29307,2061931_2260133,00.html<br/>So Columbian drug traffickers build (semi-)submergibles for getting their drugs into the Central America and the US. Take that DIY community!</li>
<li>"Die ganze Welt ist meiner Meinung":http://www.spiegel.de/netzwelt/web/0,1518,750111,00.html<br/>On how algorithmic filtering of content and personalization can lead to a filter bubble (in German).</li>
<li>"Monitoring Theory":http://teddziuba.com/2011/03/monitoring-theory.html<br/>If you ever were a sysadmin who spent nights on call with an overambitious Nagios texting you every 3.5 seconds, you'll love this. And even if you didn't there's some good thoughts on monitoring in there.</li>
<li>"Mathematical artist: Why hyperbolic space is awesome":http://www.newscientist.com/blogs/culturelab/2011/03/mathematical-artist-why-hyperbolic-space-is-awesome.html<br/>Nice interview with "Vi Hart":http://vihart.com/everything/ on the beauty of mathematics. If you don't know her work, you should definitely check it out (personally I'd recommend the "math doodling" videos)!</li>
<li>"The Other Rebels":http://www.newyorker.com/online/blogs/georgepacker/2011/04/ivory-coast-rebels.html<br/>With all the attention on Lybia, it's easy to overlook conflicts in other countries, e.g. Ivory Coast.</li>
<li>"Tell-all telephone":http://opendata.zeit.de/widgets/dataretention/<br/>Next time you have trouble explaining the dangers of data retention in relation to privacy, just show your conversation partner this visualization.</li>
<li>"Programmers Need To Learn Statistics Or I Will Kill Them All":http://zedshaw.com/essays/programmer_stats.html<br/>Like with most things Zed Shaw writes I'm not a big fan of the language, but agree with the content.</li>
</ul>
