--- 
layout: post
title: Information Overload 2011-04-24
date: 2011-4-24
comments: true
categories: 
- informationoverload
- math
- politics
- science
- society
---
<ul>
<li>"classes of functions":http://www.matusiak.eu/numerodix/blog/index.php/2009/05/24/classes-of-functions/<br>If you often get confused by terms like injective, surjective and bijective, this blog post including diagrams and programming analogies should help.</li>
<li>"Una ragazza e la sua stanza":http://www.ilpost.it/2011/04/13/una-ragazza-e-la-sua-stanza/37_rmatar_girlroom/<br>Not your typical Information Overload post, this photo series portrays teenage girls and young women in the US and the Middle East in their rooms. It's interesting to see the differences and similarities in clothing, decoration, self-exposure and so on.</li>
<li>"How Little Sleep Can You Get Away With?":http://www.nytimes.com/2011/04/17/magazine/mag-17Sleep-t.html?_r=2<br>I know I'm guilty of not sleeping enough (even though it's not always voluntary) and I know so are a lot of my fellow hackers out there, but maybe we should rethink our strategy?</li>
<li>"Schnitt sich van Gogh sein Ohr selbst ab?":http://www.welt.de/kultur/history/article13205342/Schnitt-sich-van-Gogh-sein-Ohr-selbst-ab.html<br>I didn't know there are actually rumours that Gaugin cut Van Gogh's ear off (in German).</li>
<li>"Intuitive Understanding of Sine Waves":http://betterexplained.com/articles/intuitive-understanding-of-sine-waves<br>I'm generally a fan of "Better Explained":http://betterexplained.com, but this is an especially good article.</li>
<li>"Primordial Weirdness: Did the Early Universe Have One Dimension?":http://www.buffalo.edu/news/12493<br>I'm always eager to read about new Physics theories and I'm especially fond of this one.</li>
<li>"Brigands seeking harbours":http://www.economist.com/node/18586874<br>Interesting study regarding piracy in dysfunctional countries. Funny side note: during my brief stint as a German teacher I once taught one of the authors of the cited paper.</li>
<li>"What If There Weren't So Many White People?":http://blog.okcupid.com/index.php/what-if-there-were-not-so-many-white-people/<br>OkCupid sometimes do cool blog posts about data gathered from their user base and this one is no exception.</li>
<li>"Map / Reduce - A visual explanation":http://ayende.com/Blog/archive/2010/03/14/map-reduce-ndash-a-visual-explanation.aspx<br>If you are confused my map/reduce, this might help.</li>
<li>"Can a complete novice become a golf pro with 10,000 hours of practice?":http://www.tampabay.com/features/can-a-complete-novice-become-a-golf-pro-with-10000-hours-of-practice/1159357<br>Do 10000 hours of practice really make you an expert? Dan McLaughlin is trying to find out.</li>
</ul>
