--- 
layout: post
title: Information Overload 2011-01-30
date: 2011-1-30
comments: true
categories: 
- history
- informationoverload
- politics
- programming
- science
---
<ul>
<li>"Chicks Who Rip: Amy Chen":http://www.engineyard.com/blog/2011/chicks-who-rip-amy-chen/<br/>Every initiative that wants to get more women into programming should get our support as male developers. It's frickin 2011, can we get over gender stereotypes and finally accept female steel-workers and male nurses?</li>
<li>"Mauritius: A Glimmer of African Freedom":http://mises.org/daily/4985<br/>We don't get good news about Africa often enough, so when they are there, we should share them despite the slightly liberterian undercurrent.</li>
<li>"Cool maps: Measuring growth from outer space":http://aidwatchers.com/2011/01/cool-maps-measuring-growth-from-outer-space/<br/>Interesting idea: measuring economic with satellite images analyzing light distribution in a country.</li>
<li>"Bringing Balance to the Force":http://cleancoder.posterous.com/individuals-and-interactions<br/>Since I like balanced and balancing opinions, I also like Uncle Bob's post on software craftsmanship.</li>
<li>"Frauen sind auch nur Männer":http://www.zeit.de/zeit-wissen/2007/01/Titel-Frauen-Maenner?page=all<br/>Is the real difference between men and women just a resulted of being trained in stereotypes? That's what it looks like (in German).</li>
<li>"Never Use a Warning When you Mean Undo":http://www.alistapart.com/articles/neveruseawarning/<br/>Even though I'm no designer, I have a soft spot for articles on UI/UX design and this one is no exception.</li>
<li>"News Desk: Mubarak and the Generals":http://www.newyorker.com/online/blogs/newsdesk/2011/01/mubarak-and-the-generals.html<br/>What role will the army play in the current Egyptian protests?</li>
<li>"How the Internet went out in Egypt":http://www.zdnet.com/blog/networking/how-the-internet-went-out-in-egypt/620<br/>If you want to explain to non-techy friends how Egypt "turned off the internet", this is a good resource.</li>
<li>"Political Flags of Extremism":http://www.loeser.us/flags/hate.html<br/>Comprehensive collection of flags of far right and extremist groups. Also has a "second part":http://www.loeser.us/flags/hate2.html. Contains interesting information on some pretty obscure groups.</li>
<li>"The Inside Story of How Facebook Responded to Tunisian Hacks":http://www.theatlantic.com/technology/archive/2011/01/the-inside-story-of-how-facebook-responded-to-tunisian-hacks/70044/<br/>Facebook's role in the Tunisian revolution. More interesting for understanding how Facebook was used by the Tunisians than for the technical content, but still...</li>
</ul>
