---
layout: post
title: "Feliz Navidad!"
date: 2012-12-24 10:01
comments: true
categories:
    - private
    - travel
---
I even have a present for you, the long overdue post about Uruguay,
one of the highlights of our trip so far!

Our first destination was Montevideo, a city I basically liked from
the very beginning. Which is strange, because it's not necessarily the
prettiest of places. Let me rephrase that: it's a city for the second
look. There's a lot of ugly architecture around, but also tons of nice
old colonial buildings. Add to that tree-lined streets (occasionally
even with cobblestones) and roughly 22km of coast and you have a
pretty neat mix. On top of that Uruguayans are lovely people, very
relaxed, friendly, talkative and with the highest mate consumption in
the world. What's not to like? We also had some great CouchSurfing
hosts, so we met lots of people and had quite an active social life.

After a week though we decided to leave the city behind for a bit, and
headed to the Atlantic coast, more specifically Punta del Diablo, a
charming little town of about 700 inhabitants. At least during low
season, because once high season hits the places grows to over 20000
people. While some may like that, I'm definitely not one of them and
having kilometers of beautiful beaches to ourselves was a great
experience. It's hard to describe the beauty of this place in words
(and I haven't uploaded our pictures yet), but it was very hard to
leave Punta del Diablo. If you ever get a chance to go there, do it,
especially during mid to late November, when the weather is already
good but the place is not overrun by tourists yet.

From the coast we headed back for another weekend in Montevideo,
before setting off to picturesque Colonia de Sacramento, another place
that was hard to leave. True, it can get quite full of tourists, but
somehow the town absorbs them well. Also a lot of them just come on
day trips from Buenos Aires, which means they leave again in the late
afternoon and the old town full of cobblestones, cute little colonial
houses and the friendliest street dogs in the world is all yours
again.

Uruguay, a love affair. And I can't even tell you exactly why. Is it
because the whole country looks like Hobbit Land? Or because the
people are amazingly friendly and welcoming? Or because of the very
relaxed rhythm of life? Probably all of the above, and a bit more
that's hard to put into words. I know this mail is somewhat shorter
than the others and lacks detailed descriptions, but somehow I find it
hard to write about Uruguay. It's not a flashy country full of things
to do and places to visit, but it's beautiful nonetheless and I had a
wonderful time there. Whenever someone mentions it, something in me
just wants to go back there right away...

Anyway, I hope all of you are doing well, I'll try to be faster with
the post about the month we just spent in Argentina!
